>>ROBERT FELIX: We're standing
in Kerry Park overlooking
the city of Seattle with
the Space Needle here.
If it weren't quite
so cloudy, you
could see Mount Rainier rising
into the sky in the background.
16,000 years ago, this entire
area, all the way-- everything
you can see was buried beneath
3,000 to 4,000 feet of ice.
I mean, I'm talking
more than a half
a mile of ice, more than
one kilometer of ice
straight up from
where I'm standing.
Hi, I'm Robert Felix, author
of "Not by Fire But by Ice,"
and I'm here to warn
you that the next ice
age could begin any day.
Now, I'd like to explain why,
so please stay put and prepare
yourself for a
fascinating episode
of "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what
to believe anymore
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Fascinating indeed.
And of course, Robert
Felix is with us.
Robert, that's kind of
scary, I got to tell you.
>>FELIX: It is really scary.
And right now, I live
in the Seattle area,
but my wife and I
have been looking
for other locations
that might be safer--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>FELIX: --a little bit
further south, not that much,
but a little.
>>NOORY: A lot of people
will say, come on,
this is going to be
thousands of years from now.
The point is, based on talking
to you for so many years
and especially on
"Coast to Coast AM,"
is that it's a gradual
increase that can still
cause incredible
havoc, can't it?
>>FELIX: Well, actually,
it's not so gradual,
because up until
the 1990s, I think
scientists pretty
much believed that.
But there was a project called
GRIP, Greenland Ice Core
Project.
I think it was in 1989 that they
drilled into the ice in Central
Greenland, and they went
down more than two miles
so that they could
pull up these 4 inch--
>>NOORY: These cores.
>>FELIX: --cores, yeah, and they
could study the ice that was--
or the snow that was deposited
as much as 250,000 years ago.
At first, they didn't
believe their own study
so they didn't
publish this for--
>>NOORY: Were they baffled?
>>FELIX: They were
totally baffled.
It showed that the ice ages had
begun in less than 20 years.
So they studied
more, and more people
were getting those same results.
Now, what they
finally came up with
is that every ice age in the
last quarter million years
began in less than 20 years--
sometimes as short as 10 years
or even three years.
>>NOORY: Just like that in time.
>>FELIX: Just like that.
Now, the thing is-- well, the
big one that I'll talk about
is there was something
called the Eemian period.
>>NOORY: Eemian.
>>FELIX: "Ee-mi-an."
Eemian.
But anyway, this was from
about 127,000 years ago
to 115,000 years ago, which
ended with a magnetic reversal,
by the way.
But anyway, the Eemian period
was even warmer than today.
And then, we descended into a
full-fledged glacial severity
in less than 20 years.
So yeah, I'm saying that when
it comes, it comes in a hurry.
It really does.
>>NOORY: And it doesn't
take much to disrupt
a person's life, right?
>>FELIX: Oh, no.
Well--
>>NOORY: One bad season
could screw you up.
>>FELIX: That could.
And you know, and I see--
well, I see the evidence now
that it's starting to come.
I mean, just in July there was
this record cold across so much
of the United States,
across the plains,
across the Southeast
and the East.
And I'm seeing more
and more of that,
and we're having more and
more record snows every year.
So I fear that we're
entering that 20 year period.
>>NOORY: Having been
raised in the Midwest,
we had a lot of discussions
about the lakes freezing over.
And there would be some seasons
that lakes would freeze over
in its entirety.
The Detroit River
would freeze up.
Lake Erie would freeze up.
Lake Superior would
start freezing up.
It played an incredible havoc
on shipping and commerce
and things like that.
Do you see that as a
commonplace occurrence?
>>FELIX: Oh, yes.
And I see that-- I mean, just
look at this last winter,
is that the Great Lakes did
freeze more than at-- well, no,
I shouldn't say
any time on record,
but certainly more than--
>>NOORY: In a long time.
>>FELIX: --any time since
satellite records began,
is that 92% of the Great
Lakes were ice-covered.
There were some people
talking about maybe
they'd be able to
take a snowmobile all
the way from Chicago
to Canada, and--
>>NOORY: They might
have been able to.
>>FELIX: They might
They might have.
And US Steel, they shut down
their production because they
weren't-- you know, they ship
their iron ore by the Great
Lakes, and they
weren't able to do it.
And so we're looking
at these things,
to me, that indicate
something's going on right now.
>>NOORY: And then of course,
it gets warm, it melts.
But then it comes back
with another rough season.
I mean, so wintertime this year
could be a disaster, right?
>>FELIX: Oh, it could.
Well, one of the hallmarks
of entering an ice age
is extremes.
And where I learned
about this, there
was a scientist in the
United Kingdom, H.H. Lamb.
Hubert H. Lamb, I think
his first name was.
But he studied
climatology for years.
He was probably one of
the world's greatest
climatologists, wrote several
books on the Little Ice Age.
But he pointed out that our
entry is a time of extremes.
And he said, for instance,
going into the Little Ice Age,
there were areas
of the world that
had the worst
droughts in 300 years.
>>NOORY: We're having that now.
>>FELIX: Well then
later that year,
same location, same year,
they had the worst snowstorms
in 500 years.
So yeah--
>>NOORY: So the
droughts went away,
but they got replaced
with something else.
>>FELIX: Right.
And so these extremes
that I'm seeing now
that I know that some
of the media are saying
have to do with
global warming, I
go, no, they have to
do with this cycle.
To me, it's a cycle, it's
a cycle, it's a cycle.
And if we could just get that
into our computer models,
we'd be seeing a
different scenario.
>>NOORY: Last winter,
we had a rough season
where a lot of cattle died.
They simply froze to
death, and farmers
didn't have any
place to take them.
There were tens of
thousands of dead cattle.
They had to-- at least
until things thawed out,
they were just left out
there on the fields of ice.
>>FELIX: Yeah, that
was, what, South Dakota,
and I think that was like last
October, something like that.
>>NOORY: Decimating to them.
>>FELIX: More than 100,000
cattle in South Dakota.
>>NOORY: Just like that.
>>FELIX: They were gone.
What had happened is
they had huge rainstorms,
so these poor cattle
were all wet and soaked.
And then came this huge
snowstorm-- 4 feet of snow.
>>NOORY: They froze to death.
>>FELIX: Now, how do you
move in 4 feet of snow?
A cow can't.
And so--
>>NOORY: And you can't eat.
>>FELIX: And what the cattle
apparently did is-- this
is part of their DNA,
whatever-- but they
all moved into lower
locations because it would
be a little bit warmer
in the lower locations.
But then that's when the
wind started blowing.
That's when the snow
started accumulating.
And so, yeah, they
froze to death, yeah.
>>NOORY: That could
happen to people, too.
>>FELIX: That could
happen to people.
And by the way, it's
not just South Dakota.
That happened last
year in Bolivia.
Something like 70,000 cattle
were killed by huge snowstorms.
And then this spring in
Bolivia, another 60,000.
So oh yeah, it could happen
with-- now, at least,
people were a little bit warned.
But I don't know if
we'll be warned in time.
>>NOORY: And of course that
beef, even though it's frozen,
is-- you can't use it.
>>FELIX: Oh, it's lost.
And these farmers, they don't
have insurance for something
like that.
So it wiped out a
lot of ranchers.
>>NOORY: 100,000.
>>FELIX: 100,000 in
South Dakota alone, yes.
>>NOORY: What about the sun?
Does the sun play
havoc with any of this?
>>FELIX: Oh, I think the sun
has everything to do with it.
And what we're looking
at-- the reason
I say that is a big
part of it is sunspots.
And sunspots are areas
of magnetic turbulence
on the sun that
are actually cooler
than the rest of the sun.
But there's a strong correlation
between times of low sunspot
activity and it getting
cooler on Earth.
And the one I'll
bring up, really,
is during the Little
Ice Age, there
was a period of about 40 years
when there were no sunspots.
>>NOORY: 40 years?
>>FELIX: Yeah, about 40 years.
It's known as the-- Now, we
were able to find that out
because Galileo had
invented the telescope.
Before that, we
really didn't know.
But scientists were able to
look up there and study the sky.
And for about 40 years, none.
And it's called the
Maunder Minimum.
And that is when the
Little Ice Age came along.
And also, it appears that
volcanic activity increases
during these times
of lower sunspots.
Well, right now-- and
this is according to NASA.
This is not my imagination.
Right now, sunspot
activity is the lowest
it has been in more
than 100 years.
And 100 years ago, or
a little bit more that,
is that's when we had what
was called the Dalton Minimum,
a period of very low
sunspot activity.
That was sunspot
cycle number five.
Now we're in sunspot
cycle number 24.
>>NOORY: 24.
>>FELIX: And when
you look at a graph
and see how today's rise
and fall of the intensity
follows sunspot
cycle five so closely
that a lot of scientists
are now saying-- well,
there's landscheidt.info--
no, landscheidt.com
is a website run by Geoff
Sharp who keeps track of this.
Now, NASA, when they're
tracking sunspots,
they're using all of
today's technology,
so they're seeing more sunspots
than might have occurred
during the Dalton Minimum
or the Maunder Minimum.
But when you look at the sun
using the same technology
as they had back then, we are
matching it almost perfectly.
And so Geoff Sharp
keeps track of that.
And when you look at that chart,
you realize we are on our way,
at least, to a Dalton Minimum,
maybe to a Maunder Minimum.
I think we're headed
for a Maunder Minimum.
>>NOORY: Oh, one the things
we're concerned about,
Robert, of course, X-flares
from the sun, which
could play havoc
with our power grid.
And our campaign, of
course, is to get the power
grid insulated, protected,
against something like that.
But a lot of people
don't factor in the fact
that sunspots also can play
around with the weather.
>>FELIX: Oh, yes, so much.
Now, there are some scientists
out there who say, no, sunspots
have nothing to do with this.
But there are others,
like the astrophysicist
that I talked about,
who absolutely
say sunspots have everything
to do with the weather.
This Piers Corbyn
that I mentioned,
he was able to predict the
polar vortex reaching low
down into the United
States last winter,
long before any of the official
scientists were able to do it.
The UK Met Office has, what,
$40 million worth of computers.
As near as I can tell,
Piers is working at home
with a little laptop.
But because he knows
what's actually happening,
he's able to tell us the truth.
>>NOORY: How many undersea
volcanoes are there
on this planet, and what are
they contributing to this?
>>FELIX: Oh, I think everything.
And I think that will be
my contribution eventually.
When I started writing
the book back in 1991,
scientists thought there were
10,000 underwater volcanoes
in the entire world.
>>NOORY: Active?
>>FELIX: No, just 10,000 total.
And at least the
ones that are active
are pumping lava into the sea
that's 2,100 degrees Fahrenheit
hot, so we're talking
a lot of heat there.
But that was 10,000
underwater volcanoes.
Well, in 1993, they
discovered another 1,100
underwater volcanoes off
the coast of Easter Island.
So in just a matter of months--
>>NOORY: Just in one area?
>>FELIX: Yeah, in one area,
in a matter of months,
they increased the world's
supply of underwater volcanoes
by 10%.
Well, now-- I mean,
they were so far off.
Now, NASA estimates that
there are more than three
million underwater volcanoes.
>>NOORY: Geez.
>>FELIX: And they estimate--
and again, not all of those
are active.
>>NOORY: That's like simmering
a pot of water, isn't it?
>>FELIX: Oh, to me, it is.
They're not all active,
but they estimate
that there are probably
at least 140,000
of them that are active.
Well, look at what's happening
in Iceland right now.
>>NOORY: Now, what do
you mean by active?
>>FELIX: Active, I mean--
>>NOORY: Volcanoes are
spewing ash, underwater?
>>FELIX: Underwater.
Not ash, necessarily, but just
magma that's coming up slowly.
Because when you're talking
about the above-water
volcanoes, they have to force
their way up through miles of--
>>NOORY: Of water.
The pressure holds it down.
>>FELIX: Well, but when it's
above earth, above the water,
they've got to push up through
the earth, essentially.
Whereas down next
to the water, they
can just-- when they're
below the water,
they don't have all
that soil above them.
>>NOORY: It just
kind of oozes out.
>>FELIX: They just
kind of ooze up out.
But scientists are finding more
underwater volcanoes every day.
I don't remember
the name of it is,
but just this summer,
they discovered
the biggest underwater volcanic
concept that they've seen.
Well, you've probably
talked about Bardarbunga,
a volcano in Iceland.
>>NOORY: That's it, yeah.
>>FELIX: Well, let's face it.
That's part of the
Mid-Atlantic Ridge.
>>NOORY: That's
always ready to go.
>>FELIX: Yes.
Well, that's part of
the Mid-Atlantic Ridge
that has come up
out of the water.
But that Mid-Atlantic Ridge
is like more than 10,000 miles
long.
It's made up entirely
of volcanoes.
How many of those are active?
We don't know.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FELIX: Now, in the-- I'll
give a different example.
We do hear about the Arctic
ice melting as opposed
to Antarctic.
I hope we can get to that.
But when I was writing
the book, scientists
couldn't quite understand
how this happened.
But even though during
the last ice age,
even though Canada was covered
by one to two miles of ice,
the Arctic Ocean was
no more ice-covered
than it is right now.
And they couldn't
understand why.
Well, they didn't--
>>NOORY: You know why.
>>FELIX: They didn't know
about the Gakkel Ridge.
There is a chain of
underwater volcanoes
beneath the water in the
Arctic Ocean that's called--
>>NOORY: Heating up the water.
>>FELIX: Well, this chain, it's
bigger than the Alps, actually.
It's 1,100 miles long.
It's all underwater.
Now, scientists thought
it wasn't active.
But a few years ago,
the Max Planck Society
sent down submersibles.
And the Gakkel
Ridge is so active
that they had to
be careful that it
didn't melt some
of their cables.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>FELIX: So to me, that is what
is keeping the Arctic Ocean
warmer than the other areas.
>>NOORY: When the magma hits
the water, what happens?
>>FELIX: Well,
I've seen pictures
of the underwater smokers,
is that essentially,
it just comes out.
You can see the little
explosions, so to speak.
But apparently, that's
where the kinds of metals
that are rare metals
that accumulate there.
And there are kinds
of shrimp that
seem to survive-- thrive--
in this 800 degree water.
But I'm looking
at-- because I don't
deny that what the-- the
ocean has been warming.
But I don't think
humans are heating it.
I think it's coming
from the way down there,
is that those
underwater volcanoes are
heating the ocean.
>>NOORY: So there's a
contributing factor here,
because we had talked in
our previous "Beyond Belief"
show about a magnetic reversal.
So you include a magnetic
reversal; underwater volcanoes;
sunspots, or lack of--
all this is hitting us
at the same time
right now, Robert.
What does this all mean?
>>FELIX: All of it is
hitting us at the same time.
Well, what I'm seeing is as
the underwater volcanoes heat
the oceans, then they're
causing more evaporation,
so more and more moisture
is rising into the sky.
But at the same time,
the sky is being
cooled by the
above-water volcanoes.
So you've got what I say is
warmer oceans and colder skies.
That is a recipe for disaster.
>>NOORY: And we're in
this disaster, right now?
>>FELIX: As near as
I can see, and it
appears that volcanic activity
is heavier than it has been.
I say, it appears
because scientists
didn't used to be able to keep
track of volcanic activity
all over the world.
And so some
scientists are saying,
no, there's no more
volcanic activity
than usual, it's just that we
didn't know about the other.
I think there is.
And when I look at magnetic
reversal-- for instance,
the Gothenburg magnetic
reversal that I mentioned
11,500 years ago, they have
found piles of mammoth bones
in Alaska interspersed
with volcanic ash, all
at the same time as
the magnetic reversal.
And in-- well, in
Washington state,
they had that-- the Glacial
Lake Missoula floods.
And so they have found
a tremendous amount
of ash from Mount
St. Helens that's
interspersed with
the flood deposits.
So again, all of these things
happen at the same time.
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
It's a product of
disasters, isn't it--
a recipe for disaster.
>>FELIX: It is.
And yet, I think
we could survive.
If we knew what was
coming, I think we could.
>>NOORY: But the
ice age that you
believe we're in is not going
to blanket the planet, right?
>>FELIX: Oh, right.
>>NOORY: So there could be some
regions that you can escape to.
>>FELIX: Absolutely.
Yeah, well, I had
mentioned that I
am looking further south
from Olympia, Washington.
But again, if somebody
would look at the map--
I have a map on my website
that shows where the ice
sheets extended during
the last ice age.
And the ice
extended-- it covered
all of Seattle-- 3,000
to 4,000 feet of ice.
But then it moved
slightly lower.
>>NOORY: I can't imagine that.
>>FELIX: Oh, yeah--
3,000 to 4,000.
I mean, that's more
than half a mile.
>>NOORY: It's like
being on Europa.
>>FELIX: Yeah, that's more than
a half a mile, straight up.
How do you escape that, unless
you get out before it happens.
But yeah, it went
up into Montana.
Then it followed
glacial Lake Missoula
so that on the north side--
not Glacial Lake Missoula,
the Missoula river.
But on the north side
of the Missoula River,
there was a cliff of ice
about 15 stories high.
On the south side
of the river, you
could have survived
quite easily.
All of Chicago was
covered with ice.
I don't think it went down
as far as Saint Louis.
I'd have to look at
my map to make sure.
But all of New England,
all six states,
were totally covered with ice.
>>NOORY: And for how long?
>>FELIX: Probably 5,000 years.
So--
>>NOORY: 5,000 years?
>>FELIX: Yeah, it started--
that particular-- the major part
of that ice age started
about 23,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: If it happened
today, 5,000 feet
of ice, 5,000
years, the buildings
would be covered in ice.
>>FELIX: Yes.
>>NOORY: They'd be
preserved in ice.
>>FELIX: Yes.
>>NOORY: When it thaws, what
happens to those buildings?
Do they collapse?
Do you dry them out
and use them again?
What happens?
>>FELIX: I don't think
they'll be there,
because ice is plastic.
So ice is always
moving downhill.
>>NOORY: OK, they'll
rip it with that.
>>FELIX: It will--
moving slowly.
But if you look at a
glacier from the air,
you usually see it has a
spine of darkness, right,
up the center of it.
And that's because as it
moves down the valley,
it grinds rocks off of
both sides of the valley,
and it flows like
water but very slowly.
So all of those rocks end
up sort of in the center
and moving on down, but
it will wipe things out.
Well, I've been to
the Athabasca Glacier
in Canada, which is now--
it's has been receding.
And a lot of the glaciers in
Alaska have been receding.
The Mendenhall Glacier--
>>NOORY: Are the
glaciers, by the way,
remnants of past ice ages?
>>FELIX: Oh, yes.
But here's the thing,
as they recede,
you see ancient tree stumps.
Now, they've wiped out the
trees themselves, so buildings,
I'm sure they would wipe out.
But the ancient
trunks are there.
Now, in today's world, I hear
a lot of people taking-- media
is taking pictures of these
tree stumps that are showing up,
and they're saying that's
proof of global warming.
I'm saying, no,
that's proof that it
used to be warmer
than it is now.
I was talking to some
people this morning who
were talking about
in the Denver area,
they've uncovered mammoth bones
from before the last ice age,
that as the-- and with points,
somehow, they have been killed.
And so I'm saying, yeah, there
were humans existing there,
and mammoths.
So it had to have been warmer.
So when people talk to me
about this being unprecedented
warming, no, no.
>>NOORY: Are we going
to wake up one day
and have a 10 foot
snowfall outside?
Is that possible?
>>FELIX: Oh, I think various
parts of the world, yeah.
Because that-- what
essentially-- you had mentioned
the 5,000 years of
the ice builds up.
Well, because it
takes 100 feet of snow
to compress down
into one feet of ice,
then you're going to be
looking at winter after winter
after winter of 100 feet of
snow-- 10 stories of snow.
>>NOORY: Gosh, Robert.
Just driving in the Midwest
with a dusting of snow
or a little bit of ice
renders people useless.
You can't drive on ice.
And we're talking about
a quarter of an inch.
>>FELIX: Right.
Well, just this
last winter, Atlanta
had those ice storms that--
>>NOORY: They take
down power lines.
>>FELIX: Oh, they
take down power lines.
I think-- I forget,
but I know that kids
had to stay in their
schools overnight.
One of the things I mentioned in
my book, looking at an ice age,
is that the climate of
Chicago will essentially
move to Georgia.
So all of a sudden, I'm seeing
these snowstorms in Georgia.
>>NOORY: The devil
went down to Georgia
>>FELIX: Yeah, yeah.
So now, people survive
just fine in Chicago,
so you can still survive this.
>>NOORY: Yeah, for a while, not
if it keeps building up though.
>>FELIX: But again, it
only goes so far south.
This last year, when we
had the polar vortex,
I looked at the maps
of that polar vortex,
and it was just incredible how
those maps curve down and it
matches--
>>NOORY: The ice ages.
>>FELIX: --the ice age,
the extent of glaciation.
So to me, it just
shows, right there,
where it's going tobe
covered or not covered.
>>NOORY: I wonder why.
>>FELIX: Well, because
the jet stream does change
during the ice age.
For instance, I had mentioned
that Seattle was covered.
It only went down
as far as Olympia.
So there's a convergence
zone, essentially,
where you have snow
on the north side
and warmer air in the south.
And that convergence zone
essentially moves south.
And if you're
south of that area,
you'll be fine as long
as you can get food.
>>NOORY: Are ice ages
planet killers, just wipes
out everything?
>>FELIX: No, not wipes
out, no, because I
think that if we're
south of that area that's
going to be covered,
we're going to be fine.
We just have to be prepared
for a few degrees colder.
I think we have to be coming up
with different kinds of food.
I had one old
geologist, Jack Sauers,
who was raising akusti rye.
He was experimenting
with different kinds
of foods that will grow
better in a cooler climate.
And that's one thing that I
would suggest that farmers
be looking at, is at least
have the seeds ready,
that they could plant
a different kind of--
>>NOORY: I have witnessed,
just with a little snowfall,
that if a weather forecaster
goes on television
and says we have
a blizzard coming,
the stores are ransacked.
They take everything.
They buy everything.
That's just with the one storm.
What's going to happen
in terms of social unrest
when this gets even worse?
Predict this for us.
>>FELIX: Well, some of it
I hate to actually say.
But this H.H. Lamb I had talked
about one time, a climatologist
out of the UK who wrote a
book about the Little Ice Age,
pointed out that
the crops failed.
What happened in--
United Kingdom
did not get covered with ice.
But what happened is the rainy
season lasted five weeks longer
in the spring, so people were
not able to plant their gardens
or they had to plant them late.
>>NOORY: It was too soggy.
>>FELIX: And then,
the rainy season
came back five weeks
earlier in the fall,
so their crops failed.
Well, literally, millions of
people died of starvation.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>FELIX: It was a bad
time to go to jail.
Because sometimes, the
people who went to jail
became food for the
other prisoners.
>>NOORY: You're kidding?
Cannibalistic?
>>FELIX: Cannibalistic,
absolutely.
And H.H. Lamb talks
about the fact
that-- and this is
horrible, but some people
ate their own children.
>>NOORY: [GASPS].
>>FELIX: It was horrible.
So I don't like to talk
about that too much, but--
>>NOORY: It's a reality, though.
>>FELIX: Oh, it is.
There's a--
>>NOORY: You can't
hide from reality.
>>FELIX: There's
a book out there.
I don't remember the author.
It's "One Second After."
>>NOORY: That's
William Forstchen.
>>FELIX: OK, and what
happens after an EMP--
>>NOORY: Attack.
>>FELIX: OK.
>>NOORY: Or an X-flare.
>>FELIX: That book,
to me, tells me
a lot about what would happen
after a magnetic reversal.
>>NOORY: That's scary.
>>FELIX: That's scary.
And so I don't really
like to talk that much.
But again, I'd like
people to be prepared.
>>NOORY: What do
you see, right now,
is the biggest thing we
can do, as a society,
to protect ourselves?
Is there anything?
>>FELIX: I think the
biggest thing is just
to tell us the truth.
You know, right now-- you
know, if you put me on a plane
to Alaska, and you
told me in advance
that I was going to Alaska,
I'd figure out what to do.
I'd pack the right things.
I'd pack the right
survival gear.
And I think--
>>NOORY: For a short term.
>>FELIX: Yeah, but
people would, too.
I mean, they're smart.
But if you tell me that
you're sending me to Florida
and then you put me on a plane--
so I've prepared for Florida
and you put me onto a plane
to Alaska, now I'm in trouble.
That's what I think
is happening today.
We're being told we're
going to Florida.
We're being told
it's global warming.
I think we're headed
the other direction.
So just tell us the
truth, and I think
that we can do a lot of things.
>>NOORY: Do you think
you could be wrong?
>>FELIX: I hope so.
>>NOORY: You want to be wrong?
>>FELIX: I want to
be wrong, right.
I do.
But when I-- no,
I actually, no, I
don't think-- I could be
wrong with the timing.
But when I look at what
has happened before
and when I look at what
is happening today--
and it's right there.
I'm not even a scientist.
>>NOORY: You're a
former architect.
>>FELIX: I am quoting
scientists here.
I have a 28 page
bibliography in this book.
I've done my homework.
And as near as I can see, all
of those cycles are there.
I could be a little off on
timing, but that's about all.
>>NOORY: And how do you
answer that argument, Robert,
from people who say,
hey, Robert Felix,
you're not a climatologist,
you're not a meteorologist,
you're a former architect.
What are you doing,
talking about ice ages?
>>FELIX: Well, I
think part of it
is that I can look at it without
being-- my mind being colored
by other things.
But what I have to
say is that I've
had plenty of climatologists,
geologists, physicists,
astrophysicists who have
endorsed the book, who
have read it, and who
at least agree with me
enough to have endorsed it.
So that's what I'd
have to say, is
that the people who have
published in this field
do agree with it.
>>NOORY: When you first got
into this, when you first
wrote "Not by Fire But by Ice"
back a long, long time ago,
what scared you about this book?
>>FELIX: Well, the
shock to me, at first,
was the magnetic
reversals, because when
I was studying the
dinosaur extinction,
magnetic reversals were
just mentioned in passing.
And I have to say,
in all honesty,
I'd never heard of
a magnetic reversal
until I started studying this.
And then as I studied
more and more and more,
and then I found out about the
underwater volcanoes-- again,
underwater volcanoes
contribute to an ice age--
>>NOORY: That's great science.
>>FELIX: I couldn't
find anybody.
Finally, I found-- and gee, I'm
not thinking of his name now.
But I finally found a scientist.
He was a South African
geologist who published in 1929,
saying that underwater volcanoes
could cause an ice age.
Other than that, I didn't
find anybody outside of that.
So I think that'll
be my contribution.
>>NOORY: The one thing we know
for sure, Robert-- this planet
is undergoing a major change.
>>FELIX: It is.
And you know, this
little ice age
cycle that I've talked
about, it correlates
with the collapse
of the Roman Empire.
It correlates with the
collapse of the Grecian empire.
collapse of the Sumerian.
It correlates with the time
when Genghis Khan swept out
of the north.
>>NOORY: But we always
come back, don't we?
>>FELIX: We always
come back, but I'm
afraid it could be correlating
with the end of a few empires
right now.
>>NOORY: Robert, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>FELIX: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: It's
called "Not by Fire
But by Ice: The Coming Ice Age."
Get yourself a coat, and get
ready for what's to come.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]